# JAX-WS
Brief description of the project.

## Introduction
The project is a Java web application that interacts with the Sakila schema database using SOAP and REST web services. The application uses JPA to manage relational data and DAO (Data Access Object) to create repositories for accessing the data. The web services are deployed on Apache Tomcat, a web server and servlet container.

## Documentation
Create using by postman
```
https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/25978326/2s93Xu1QoA
``` 

## Installation
- Clone the repository to your local machine.

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/karimtismail/JAX-WS.git
```

- Navigate to the project directory.
```bash    
  cd JAX-WS
```

- Build the project using Maven.
```bash
  mvn clean package
````

## Deployment

- Copy the WAR file generated by Maven to the Tomcat webapps directory.

```bash
  cp target/your-project.war /path/to/tomcat/webapps/
```

- Start Tomcat server.
```bash
  cd /path/to/tomcat/bin
  ./startup.sh
```

## Usage/Examples

- Open a web browser and go to http://localhost:8080/JAX/.
- The application should be up and running. You can now use it to interact with the Sakila database using SOAP and REST web services.

## Sakila Database Information
The Sakila database consists of 16 tables that represent various aspects of a hypothetical DVD rental store. Here is a brief overview of each table:
- **actor** - stores actor information such as first name and last name
- **address** - stores address information for customers and staff
- **category** - stores movie category information
- **city** - stores city information for customers and staff
- **country** - stores country information for customers and staff
- **customer** - stores customer information such as name and contact details
- **film** - stores movie information such as title, description, and length
- **film_actor** - stores information about the actors who played in each film
- **film_category** - stores information about which category each film belongs to
- **inventory** - stores information about each DVD that the rental store has in stock
- **language** - stores information about the languages available for films
- **payment** - stores information about customer payments
- **rental** - stores information about movie rentals, including the date and return date
- **staff** - stores staff information, such as name and contact details
- **store** - stores information about the stores, including location and manager
- **film_text** - stores the full text of the movie descriptions for searching purposes